control system measuring that is looking
the rate of fall of the
level
and it is now going to predict oh at
this rate the level is falling so fast
that means i need to open much more
so the deviation is actually triggering
the proportional action and already
opening the wall
and the differential action is
predicting that at how fast the level is
falling so i'll open that much more
so what will happen the stability will
be arrived much earlier here the level
will settle here rather than here if the
derivative action was not there
right
the level will settle here because it
was predictive in nature and the
integral action will put it back to the
set point because it will remove the
offset let us summarize the whole thing
depending on the error and the
relationship between the error
and this opening of this wall
there are three types of action one is
the one which is proportional action so
the value is going to be operated by the
p
proportional action which is going to
depend on the